feat(move/examples): implementation of kiosk marketplace extension using kiosk rules (#4156)
iotaledger/iota: docs/examples/move/nft_marketplace/README.md

# Marketplace Guide

The `nft_marketplace.move` module provides a straightforward implementation of a marketplace extension. To utilize it, follow the steps outlined below.
The `item_for_market.move` contains mocked item data for use within the marketplace.
The `rental_extension.move` is an extension adds functionality to enable item rentals.

## Steps to Use the Marketplace

### 1. Connect to the Network
Connect to the IOTA network (e.g., using a faucet to obtain tokens).

### 2. Install Kiosk

> Run the following command to install the Kiosk module:

Reviewer: What does it mean to "install"? Pls, describe that this function "default" creates a kiosk objects and shares it and also creates a owner cap and transfers it to the caller.

Author: Done

```bash
iota client call \                                   
    --package 0x2 \
    --module kiosk \
    --function default
```

### 3. Publish `item_for_market.move`

```bash
iota client publish
```

### 4. Create an Item

Create an item, for instance:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package $M_ITEMS_ID \
    --module market_items \
    --function new_jeans
```

After creation, export the following variables:

> 

Reviewer: Add description for each variable to link with the corresponding returned value

Author: Done

- PACKAGE_ID
- ITEM_ID
- PUBLISHER_ID

### 5. Create a Transfer Policy

> Set up a transfer policy for the created item using the command:

Reviewer: Describe briefly what a transfer policy is and what "default" returns

Author: Done

```bash
iota client call \                                   
    --package 0x2 \
    --module transfer_policy \
    --function default \
    --gas-budget 10000000 \
    --args $PUBLISHER_ID \
    --type-args "$ITEM_FOR_MARKET_PACKAGE_ID::market_items::Jeans"
```

### 6. Publish rules and marketplace extension

> Publish Kiosk rules modules:

Reviewer: This should be already present after we deploy it to the testnet, no?

Author: In that case, yes

Author: Do you prefer to remove this part?

Reviewer: Put it as "6.1 (optional) Publish Kiosk rules modules if these are not present in the network you are using"
Then 6.2 is nft_marketplace.move

Author: Done

```bash
iota client publish iota/kiosk/Move.toml
```

Publish the nft_marketplace.move module:
```bash
iota client publish iota/docs/examples/move/nft_marketplace/sources/nft_marketplace.move`
```

### 7. Install the Extension on the Kiosk

> Install the marketplace extension on the created kiosk using the command:

Reviewer: Briefly explain what the install function does

Author: Done

```bash
iota client call \
    --package $MARKETPLACE_ID \
    --module nft_marketplace \
    --function install \
    --args $KIOSK_ID $KIOSK_CAP_ID
```

### 8. Set a Price for the Item

Set the price for the item:
```bash
iota client call \
    --package $MARKETPLACE_ID \
    --module nft_marketplace \
    --function set_price \
    --args $KIOSK_ID $KIOSK_CAP_ID $ITEM_ID 50000 \
    --type-args "&ITEM_FOR_MARKET_PACKAGE_ID::market_items::Jeans"

```

### 9.(Optional) Set Royalties

> Set royalties for the item:

Reviewer: Briefly explain what setting the royalties means, e.g., using the royalty rule means that a percentage of the transfer value of an item will be paid to the original item creator

Author: Done

```bash
iota client call \
    --package $MARKETPLACE \
    --module nft_marketplace \
    --function setup_royalties \
    --args $ITEM_TRANS_POLICY_ID $ITEM_TRANS_POLICY_CAP_ID 5000 2000 \
    --type-args "ITEM_FOR_MARKET_PACKAGE_ID::market_items::Jeans"
```

### 10. Buy an Item:

> To purchase the item:

Reviewer: Briefly explain what happens here as result

Author: Done

# Marketplace Guide

The `marketplace_extension.move` module provides a straightforward implementation of a marketplace extension. To utilize it, follow the steps outlined below.
The `item_for_market.move` contains mocked item data for use within the marketplace.
The `rental_extension.move` is an extension adds functionality to enable item rentals.

## Steps to Use the Marketplace

### 1. Connect to the Network

Connect to the IOTA network (e.g., using a faucet to obtain tokens).

### 2. Install Kiosk

By installation, we mean creating a Kiosk object and an OwnerCap, then transferring them to the caller.
Run the following command to install the Kiosk module:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package 0x2 \
    --module kiosk \
    --function default
```

### 3. Publish `nft_marketplace` package

#### 3.1(Optional) Publish Kiosk rules modules if these are not present in the network you are using

Publish Kiosk rules modules(package):

```bash

> iota client publish iota/kiosk

Reviewer 2: Should this command be changed like the following?
```
iota client publish ./kiosk
```
or
```
iota client publish $IOTA_REPO_DIR"/kiosk"
```
I mean does it refer to the `kiosk` folder in the root of the repository?
I think this would be nice to clarify.

Author: I prefer `$IOTA_REPO_DIR` option

```

After publishing, export the following variable:

> - `RULES_PACKAGE_ID`: The ID of rules package.

Reviewer 2: Let's add a command here, for example:
```sh
export RULES_PACKAGE_ID =<PACKAGE_ID>
```
We also can add a short command output like [this](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/blob/d24f36b693efc1627e56b4cddbb7e59104d4a797/docs/content/developer/getting-started/publish.mdx#L24) to clarify where the ID can be taken:
```
╭─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Object Changes                                                      │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ Created Objects:                                                    │
│  ...                                                                │
|                                                                     |
│ Mutated Objects:                                                    │
│  ...                                                                │
|                                                                     |
│ Published Objects:                                                  │
│  ┌──                                                                │
│  │ PackageID: <PACKAGE_ID>                                          │
│  │ Version: 1                                                       │
│  │ Digest: <DIGEST_HASH>                                            │
│  │ Modules: first_package                                           │
│  └──                                                                │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```
I see we have several export steps in the document, so it doesn't make sense to add this for all of them. This comment is for your consideration.

Author: `export RULES_PACKAGE_ID =<PACKAGE_ID>
`Depends on OS.
I guess it will just expand description without useful payload.

#### 3.2 Publish marketplace extension

> Publish the marketplace_extension.move module:

Reviewer 2: Publish the `nft_marketplace` package?

Author: You’re right

```bash

> iota client publish iota/docs/examples/move/nft_marketplace

Reviewer 2: The same question about the path:
```
iota client publish ./docs/examples/move/nft_marketplace
```
or
```
iota client publish $IOTA_REPO_DIR"/docs/examples/move/nft_marketplace"
```

Author: I prefer `$IOTA_REPO_DIR` option

```

After publishing, export the following variables:

- `MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID`: The ID of whole marketplace package.
- `MARKETPLACE_PUBLISHER_ID`: The ID of the publisher object created during marketplace package publishing."

### 4. Create an Clothing Store Item

Create an item, for instance:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package $MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID \
    --module clothing_store \
    --function new_jeans
```

After creation, export the following variable:

- `CLOTHING_STORE_ITEM_ID`: The ID of the published item (in this case, Jeans).

### 5. Create a Transfer Policy

`TransferPolicy` is a generic shared object acting as a central authority enforcing everyone to check their purchase is valid against the defined policy before the purchased item is transferred to the buyers. Object is specified by concrete type.

> `default` function creates `TransferPolicy` object and an OwnerCap, then transferring them to the caller.

Reviewer 2: Should it be:
 a `TransferPolicy` object and a `TransferPolicyCap`?

Author: it’s a description of `TransferPolicy` itself we don’t have to focus on `TransferPolicyCap`
But below, in the description I’ve admitted that we have to import `TransferPolicyCap` too

Reviewer 2: It is not clear what the `OwnerCap` is. It is better to clarify because I can't find such a type or explanation to this entity.

Author: Short description of `TransferPolicyCap` has been added

Reviewer 2: Why did you leave the `OwnerCap`?

Author: Fixed

Set up a transfer policy for the created item using the command:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package 0x2 \
    --module transfer_policy \
    --function default \
    --gas-budget 10000000 \
    --args $MARKETPLACE_PUBLISHER_ID \
    --type-args "$MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID::clothing_store::Jeans"
```

After publishing, export the following variables:

- `ITEM_TRANS_POLICY`: The ID of the item transfer policy object.
- `ITEM_TRANS_POLICY_CAP`: The ID of the item transfer policy object owner capability"

### 6. Install the Extension on the Kiosk

The install function enables installation of the Marketplace extension in a kiosk.
Under the hood it invokes `kiosk_extension::add` that adds extension to the Kiosk via dynamic field.
Install the marketplace extension on the created kiosk using the command:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package $MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID \
    --module marketplace_extension \
    --function install \

>     --args $KIOSK_ID $KIOSK_CAP_ID

Reviewer 2: From where the `KIOSK_ID` and `KIOSK_CAP_ID ` ids are taken?
They were not mentioned previously in the document.
Should we add the information about this?

Author: Added at 2 point(`2. Install Kiosk`)

# Marketplace Guide

The `marketplace_extension.move` module provides a straightforward implementation of a marketplace extension. To utilize it, follow the steps outlined below.

> The `item_for_market.move` contains mocked item data for use within the marketplace.

Reviewer 3: This file does not exist

Author: Done

The `rental_extension.move` is an extension adds functionality to enable item rentals.

## Steps to Use the Marketplace

### 1. Connect to the Network

Connect to the IOTA network (e.g., using a faucet to obtain tokens).

### 2. Install Kiosk

By installation, we mean creating a Kiosk object and an OwnerCap, then transferring them to the caller.
Run the following command to install the Kiosk module:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package 0x2 \
    --module kiosk \
    --function default
```

After publishing, export the following variables:

- `KIOSK_ID`: The ID of installed Kiosk object.

> - `KIOSK_CAP_ID`: The ID if the installed Kiosk's onwer cap

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `KIOSK_CAP_ID`: The ID of the installed Kiosk's owner cap
```

Author: Done

    --package $MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID \
    --module marketplace_extension \
    --function install \
    --args $KIOSK_ID $KIOSK_CAP_ID
```

### 7. Set a Price for the Item

Set the price for the item:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package $MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID \
    --module marketplace_extension \
    --function set_price \
    --args $KIOSK_ID $KIOSK_CAP_ID $CLOTHING_STORE_ITEM_ID 50000 \
    --type-args "$MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID::clothing_store::Jeans"
```

### 8.(Optional) Set Royalties

Royalties are a percentage of the item's price or revenue paid to the owner for the use or sale of their asset.

Set royalties for the item:

```bash
iota client call \
    --package $MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID \
    --module marketplace_extension \
    --function setup_royalties \
    --args $ITEM_TRANS_POLICY $ITEM_TRANS_POLICY_CAP 5000 2000 \
    --type-args "$MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID::clothing_store::Jeans"
```

### 9. Buy an Item:

#### 9.1 Get the Item Price:

```bash
iota client ptb \
--move-call $MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID::marketplace_extension::get_item_price "<$MARKETPLACE_PACKAGE_ID::clothing_store::Jeans>" @$KIOSK_ID @$CLOTHING_STORE_ITEM_ID --assign item_price \
```

> #### 9.2(Optional) Calculate rolyalties of the Item:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### 9.2(Optional) Calculate royalties of the Item:
```

Author: Done
